# cmplxsys530-final
Final Project for Complex Systems 530 WN18

## Project Description

This is an agent-based simulation for competitive Pokémon battles. Each agent in the simulation is a player, with a team. These agents are matched either randomly or by their Elo ranking, based on the pool of players available. 
The framework used can be used to implement any turn-based two-player game. In addition to Pokémon, Rock Paper Scissors is also implemented with appropriate agents.

## Quickstart
1. Install the requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
2. Pull down the Pokemon Showdown usage data with `python scripts/retrieve_data.py`.
3. Run the sample Pokémon simulation with `python scripts/run_simulation.py -f`, and select the `sample_simulations/sample_pokemon.yaml` file.
4. Once completed, run `python scripts/visualize_results.py -m elo`, and select the `logs/PKMNPlayers_....csv` file to see the elo rankings over the course of the simulation.

## Module Description
**agent** - Contains classes for agents in the simulations <br/>
**battle_engine** - Contains classes for the game logic in the simulations <br/>
**data** - Contains the data for the Pokémon simulations <br/>
**docs** - Contains License and Template files <br/>
**file_manager** - Contains classes for creating and parsing logs generated by the simulations <br/>
**interface** - Contains code for the flask interface to play against an agent <br/>
**ladder** - Contains classes for the player matching scheme <br/>
**pokemon_helpers** - Contains helpers for the Pokémon simulations <br/>
**sample_simulations** - Contains pre-built simulation configs <br/>
[**scripts**](scripts/) - Contains miscellaneous scripts to handle files and run tests <br/>
**simulations** - Contains classes for the individual simulations <br/>
**stats** - Contains functions to calculate statistics from and plots of the logs <br/>
**tests** - Contains unit test cases <br/>
**writeup** - Contains assignment submissions <br/>

## Writeup Links
[Link to project proposal.](writeup/proposal/proposal.md)

[Link to final report](writeup/final_report/TurfahAli_CMPLXSYS530_report.pdf)

[Link to release for final report](releases/tag/v1.2.1)